So let's dive into sequel light again.
We got a module for that supported by Expo which we install just as we installed the other native modules
as well.
And now just some quick words about sequel lite sequel lite is a database system you could say which
is available on both Iaw and Android so you can quickly set up such a database there.
It'll be super easy with this module and you can then use some sequel syntax some basic sequels syntax
to run queries against that database.
Now I'll not dive deeply into the sequel syntax here because there's obviously no sequel course but
to learn all about how to use that obviously.
Check out the official docs and attached you also find a link with a more detailed snippet that dives
into how to use the sequel aid package in an expo app where you can see more examples for how to delete
stuff and so on and you'll also find a sequel reference for a sequel like where you can learn more about
the sequel syntax.
I'll show some basic syntax now in this module.
But for all the things you can do in your queries for all the commands you can execute.
Definitely check out these resources now with that let's add sequel lite by running Expo install Expo
dash sequel lite in our project which will install this into our project here and it will work out of
the box justice before no extra configuration is needed.
And once this installation finished we can start working with sequel light.
Now working with the database involves a couple of things.
For example you need to open a connection to the database and if no database exists yet which is the
case when you first access it in the lifetime of your app it will also create that database.
And after you have that connection to that create the database you can of course run queries against
it.
So for it I'll actually add a helpers folder with a DVD chars file in there which you don't need to
do but I want to have my database logic in there to keep my profiles lean and so that I have one file
where we can see all the database logic now in there we can import sequel IDE from the package and adjust
the import syntax is now a little bit different than 40 other packages.
Instead of importing star as sequel light from this package we install it here with this named import
syntax.
Other than that it's still very similar.
And now we can start using that package here.
Now first of all I'll trade D.B. constant which holds a reference to my database which I get by running
sequel light open database.
And there we pass in a database name which could be places start D.B..
Now what this will do is it will connect to the state base or create the database if it can't find it.
So when we first launched the app and you don't need to do anything else to get access to the database
so that's very trivial.
Notice code land will be executed whenever we execute this file which effectively happens when we first
import this file anywhere.
Now all of the want to add init function years stored in a constant which are due to initialize this
database and I'll export this function as a named export.
Now in this function I want to make sure that we create a basic table because sequel databases work
with tables which hold your records and records are basically the rows of data you add to your table.
Now initially when we create the database it's empty but in order to store places we need a table that
can hold these places.
So I want to have an initialization function here which will actually create that table if it doesn't
exist yet.
So there I can use my DP constant which points at that database and run transaction no transactions
a method offered by the sequel aid package on the database and you'll find all of that in the official
docs of course.
And this transaction effort takes a function as an argument which gives you access to the transaction
object it creates for you.
The concept of transactions simply is a concept where is a package in the end then guarantees that your
query is always executed as a whole and that if some part of the query should fail the entire query
is rolled back so that you can't end up with corrupted data in your database.
That's why you actually wrap every query into such a transaction.
So this creates a transaction or initialize as a transaction and then gives you access to this transaction
object here in this function which will be executed for you.
So in here we can now use this transaction object to execute a sequel query with the help of the execute
sequel method.
Again that's also documented here so execute sequel now takes a string which describes your sequel query
and that's the part where you can dive into that sequel dark.
I mentioned earlier where you can learn all about the sequel language.
Now I want to create a table here which we do with the create table command and you don't need to write
this an opera case.
I just do this to make it clear that these are standard commands built into the sequel language and
I want to create the table.
If it doesn't exist which we do we have to if not exists restriction here and now the name of the table
will be places lowercase.
Now that's my own dynamic thing.
You're right.
I want to name it places and now between parentheses you configure what's in the table and thereafter
you can add a semicolon.
So now we define a different feel to want to have in that table the different columns.
So to say I want to have a I D column and I will set this up to B of type Integer which is one of the
support data types and sequel.
And it will be a primary key which means it will also be forced to be unique.
You can't have the same idea twice in there and it will order generate that idea for you which is very
convenient and it should not be now.
So adding empty value there will not be allowed now with a comma.
We can add the next column we want to have and that will be my title.
Now the title should be of type text and you can also add not null there if you want to.
All my data should not be null actually.
Now besides the title I also want to have the image you are either stored in there and that's all the
text which is not now.
It's text of course and not a file or anything like that because we're not storing the file in the database
we're storing the path to the file in the database which is a string and now is something else we'll
need later which are also already one to set up is my address which is a text that should be a string
which describes the address of the place and a latitude field or just let which is a real which is a
floating point number in the end and the long etude your abbreviated with LNG which is also real.
And these are all not null.
Now we're not fetching the location yet but we'll do so later and we'll express a location as a combination
of latitude and longitude which is the standard way of expressing points on the world.
So this creates such a table now if it doesn't exist already.
Now the execute sequel method also takes a second argument which is an array of arguments which will
come into play later which we don't need yet.
These would be dynamic arguments you can inject into this query but we don't need that here.
And then we have two functions here as argument number three and for the first function which we pass
in is a success function.
This executes if this command succeeded.
The second argument is the arrow function which executes if this failed.
Now the first argument to each function here and these functions are executed on your behalf by the
sequel package of course.
So these functions always as a first argument get basically the query you executed.
And by adding an underscore as a name here I signaled that I don't care about this but I'm interested
in the second argument and here this would be my error.
Object and now to make this usable in an easy way I will actually wrap this into a custom promise.
So here all create a promise by using new promise promises built into javascript and supported by the
javascript version Raich native uses and promise takes a function which takes a resolve in the reject
function as an argument.
And now we can move this data based transaction code in there and then the success case I call resolve
which means that the outer promise will be resolved in the Arab case I called reject and forward my
error here and then I can return to promise here.
Overall in my init method and now I can call the init method from other places in the app and I get
back a promise that will resolve if we were successful in initializing the database.
So in creating the table or if we faced an error by the way if no table is created because it already
exists will not get an error but we'll still end up in a success case so with this we're still not storing
anything in the database but we're setting up the database.
So now let's make sure we call in it and of course the place to call it is the aptly us file because
we want to initialize the database as soon as possible.
When our app starts up so I'll import something from my helpers folder there from the database file
in there and that's something unsurprisingly used in that function and therefore here when this app
is filed executes when we alternate initialize the redux threads on I want to call init here and now
in it deceiver successful or not so for now I'll just add a then block where I say console log initialized
database.
So that's the success case or a catch block where we get a potential error where a console log initializing
D.B. failed and where it then also console log the error we got and if we now save this you should see
here in the log initialized database which is the output from the iPhone and now that it's started on
Android you see it there for Android too.
So that works and now we got a database initialized time to now also add more methods to make sure we
can also insert data and later also of course fetch data.